don't blink or you might miss it the
seven rarest eye colors people can have
hey keep your eyes peeled because this
one's gonna be a real eye-opener all
right have you ever really seen someone
actually peeling their eyes it's really
gross okay just kidding
anyway the eyes aren't just a source of
all kinds of cliché phrases your eyes
are your windows to the world and the
window to your soul
apparently so how special are yours
perhaps they're a super rare color
before you learn about some of the most
hard to find eye colors and people be
sure to hit that subscribe button and
ring the notification bell to hang out
with us here on the bright side of life
so what colors are your eyes brown blue
green hazel and which of those do you
think is the rarest it might seem like
an easy question to answer but it really
isn't so black and white in reality
there's a debate over which eye color is
the rarest simply because the term rare
is pretty hard to define one eye color
might be very rare in a certain part of
the world and extremely common in
another okay but what about your own eye
color why do you have say hazel eyes but
your sibling has blue eyes here's where
the science comes in I color all has to
do with this thing called melanin yep
it's the same melanin that's responsible
for those cute freckles on your nose for
giving you that beautiful tan in the
summer and even for your hair color but
melanin only consists of the colors red
yellow brown and black what about blue
and green how are
those eye colours produced well it's a
fascinating mix of several factors eye
color is decided by the amount and type
of melanin in your iris the colored part
of your eye the makeup and thickness of
the stroma a thin tissue in your iris
and lighting especially for people with
light-colored eyes
the most common eye colors are brown
blue and hazel brown eyes which have the
most melanin are the most common eye
color in the world representing just
over half the world's population blue
eyes are much rarer they represent
roughly 8% of the world's population as
for how they're formed it's all got to
do with light and a lack of melanin you
see as light passes through blue eyes it
hits the back of the iris and then
reflects back out as it bounces back it
gets scattered through some proteins
present in the eye creating that blue
color and here's a fun fact this
phenomenon that scatters the light and
creates the blue color in the eye is
called Rayleigh scattering and it's the
same reason the sky appears below so
next time a kid asks you why the sky is
blue there's your answer
and finally hazel eyes are a little bit
brighter than brown eyes they have more
of a green or yellow tint and represent
about five to eight percent of the
world's population so you know know that
the amount and type of melon and present
in your eyes affects the color of your
iris but what determines how much
pigment you get well you can thank
genetics for that
so again if your sibling is blue-eyed
and you ended up with hazel eyes it just
means that genetics decided to give your
eyes more melanin so in short the more
melanin you have in your eyes the
browner they'll be as for the types of
melanin they are FeO melanin which has
reddish and yellow pigment and you
melanin which has brown and black
pigment now what's really cool is that
some people's eyes can change depending
on what they're wearing the time of day
also known as lighting and even the
makeup they have on are you one of these
people let everyone know down in the
comments some people have a different
colored or darker limbal ring which is
the ring around the outer edge of the
iris the limbal ring usually fades as we
age so this is something that's
indicative of young eyes either way our
irises are like fingerprints even
genetically identical people like twins
have different irises so now that you
know some of the science behind eye
color let's take a look at some of the
rarest out there counting down from
number seven amber eyes amber eyes are
one of the rarest colors in the world
they occur in less than 5% of eyes
worldwide even though they're considered
rare there are some geographical
locations where amber eyes are more
commonplace like South America and Asia
the color of amber eyes varies from a
very strong copper to gold to russet to
almost yellow they're different from
hazel eyes because there's no brown
green or hazel present some experts
believe that this color happens because
of a yellow pigment called lipo chrome
that's found throughout the iris some
might describe them as wolf-like but
wolves aren't the only animals with
golden eyes others include cats owls
eagles and even some fish some famous
members of the amber eyed Club are
Nicole Richey Evangeline Lilly and Nikki
Reed number 6 green eyes the fact that
green eyes are considered a rarity may
come as a surprise for some of you but
let's remember that some people wrongly
identify they're hazel eyes as green
there's actually a huge difference
between green and hazel eyes green eyes
are more uniform in color than hazel
eyes ranging in color from jade to olive
to bright grass green in some northern
and central European regions and in
Western Asia green eyes occupy a larger
percentage of the population
despite this fact green eyes are still
incredibly rare comprising only 2% of
the world's population that makes this
eye color one of the rarest in the world
in green eyes the front of the iris only
has a small amount of melanin which is
usually red or yellowish pheomelanin the
light scattering effect gives off a blue
color that mixes with the yellowish
color making the eye look green
interestingly people of any race can
have green eyes and they're more common
in women than in men animals like house
cats alligators owls and even big cats
like Panthers have green eyes as for
famous members of the super exclusive
green-eyed Club they include Emma Stone
Adele Clive Owen and Gael Garcia Bernal
number five silver eyes the silver eye
color is also pretty unique and is more
common in Eastern Europe some believe
that silver eyes are a variation of the
blue eye color and this is kind of true
similar to blue eyes silver eyes are the
result of a very low level of
pigmentation in the eye which results in
a greyish silver appearance number four
black eyes next up our black eyes which
aren't actually black at all because
truly black eyes don't exist which are
really seeing are just really really
dark brown eyes black eyes are caused by
an overproduction of pigment number
three red or pink eyes you may have seen
someone with pink or red eyes this color
is also one of the rarest and in most
cases it comes along with a health
condition like albinism the red or pink
color is the result of very little to no
melanin in the eyes at all that red
color is actually the blood vessels of
the eye that you're seeing number two
violet eyes
have you ever heard someone get
nostalgic about Elizabeth Taylor's
violet eyes well not to burst their or
your bubble but truly violet eyes don't
exist sorry
but it's just not possible to be born
with amethyst colored peepers it's
basically either lighting or makeup that
make the eyes appear to have a purplish
hue
it can also appear in people with
albinism if they have bluish eyes that
get damaged by the Sun this will add red
to the blue then the result is a
purplish appearance number one
multicolored eyes yes it is a thing and
it's technically called heterochromia
this is an eye disorder that causes a
person's eyes to be different colors
actually there are different types of
this condition complete heterochromia
means both irises are a totally
different color partial heterochromia is
when only part of the iris is a
different color central heterochromia
means the inner ring of the eye is a
different color than the outer ring this
disorder can result in such a wide
variety of eye colours and mixtures that
it wins the prize for being the rarest
eye color in the world it's not just one
color but a multi color that makes it a
rarity some animals can have
heterochromia and they're usually white
cats as well as dogs like Huskies and
Australian Shepherds notable celebrities
with heterochromia are Kate Bosworth and
Mila Kunis and finally of course there's
betty davis eyes she'll turn the music
on you you won't have to think twice but
maybe that's a whole nother deal so what
about you which one of these eye colors
do you wish you had let us know in the
comments below if you learned something
new from this video then go ahead and
give it a like share it with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]
[Applause]